here you know if you can just do
meatless Mondays if you can just be a
reducer terian if you can just take
these compromising baby steps good for
you I give you a pat in the head and I
don't respect you enough to try to
educate you on the matters of principle
that shape my life because somehow my
life is so much so much more meaningful
than yours it's a basic paradox isn't it
I respect you enough to disrespect you
as opposed to I regard you as some kind
of mental infant and I don't have the
respect I don't have enough respect for
you to really be honest to really say
this might upset you but here's how it
is here's the matter of principle here's
what's so meaningful for me in my life
here's what matters so much from my
perspective about the future of planet
Earth the future of our society this is
why I care so much about the
exploitation and deaths of millions of
animals that it reshapes my life on on a
day-to-day basis and this is why I think
you should care also the replace because
the backbone would never be what the
basement was
start with the concession that not
everyone can become vegan not everyone
can become vegan immediately or
overnight
not everyone can quit smoking on the one
hand there are people who can't some
quit smoking in the short term but there
are also people who are never gonna quit
smoking they can't do it today they
can't do it tomorrow they can't do it
the next decade they're gonna keep on
smoking cigarettes until they die even
if they try their hardest to quit some
there are some people who can never quit
smoking
however it's completely false to take
from this the lesson that we should go
around just telling people that it's ok
to be a part-time vegan to do meatless
Mondays that the principle that thing
doesn't matter that it's ok to tell a
smoker that as long as they're reducing
the number of cigarettes they smoke
that's ok or to tell a smoker that you
know cigarettes aren't really that bad
now differences are many - it's actually
quite easy for people to grasp why they
should quit smoking especially in this
day and age to understand why veganism
is morally imperative shall we say it's
quite difficult fuel to grass and many
people including viewers on this channel
some of you will have become vegan for
one set of reasons when you were younger
and remained vegan but actually your
reasoning changed actually your moral
justifications for vegan as it may have
profoundly changed from one period of
your life to another some people start
off as vegans for health reasons then
later at sea ecology or then later its
animal rights or what have you
these things can change even within your
life while you're remaining vegan your
understanding may deepen or broaden or
just shift there may be things you used
to care about you don't care about them
anymore especially if you started
veganism off with an emotionally
traumatic experience because there are
people in the short-term they see an
animal get slaughtered they have some
kind of traumatic experience that
suddenly makes them care about animal
rights and in the short term that's all
they need to know that's all they think
about that's all they care about later
I don't know water pollution air
pollution other complex questions about
the future of industrial agriculture
what have you
creep in it's the same position that I
hold on drinking cow's milk it if it can
be guaranteed that the animals do not
suffer as a result of you doing that
then I have no problem with it
it's MOLLE unjustifiable to
unnecessarily take advantage of an
animal merely for the resources that it
can provide there is a reason why the
word milk is synonymous of the word
exploitation it is somewhat difficult to
imagine the scenario of talking to
someone who really does not understand
that smoking is bad for them in the 21st
century it was the case not that long
ago but to imagine yourself talking to
someone where you're not just trying to
motivate them to quit smoking when they
already know and agree that it's
something they should do but you're
actually trying to educate them on the
matters of principle involved in smoking
versus non-smoking and with veganism
it's both the case that we have that
uphill struggle that you know the
concept of veganism is new to people
some people don't know if it's healthy
some people don't know if it's possible
some people sincerely do not think it's
possible for them to become vegan and
the matters of principle really are very
complex and we don't agree amongst
ourselves it's what they keep learned
from this channel it's that the level of
agreement on matters of principle
amongst vegans is much less than anyone
could have possibly supposed with
examples of you know what to do about
vivisection what to do a pet ownership
castration what's doable treatment of
wild animals in contrast to domesticated
animals there are many issues that I
really do consider profound and worth
debating where the debates are still
very fresh very unsettled very divisive
within veganism do you respect someone
enough to really deal with the matters
of principle on a case-by-case basis
when you're talking to people or do you
suppose they're like your hypothetical
granddad who's over 70 years old who's
never gonna quit smoking and where
there's just no point
talking to him about how bad smoking is
or why he should quit smoking
you can't regard the whole world that
way but some people really are that way
some people never can be vegan but in
terms of you know having contempt for
your fellow man if you fellow human
beings I think you're starting off on
the wrong foot by saying to people oh
well here this is good enough for you
here you know if you can just do
meatless Mondays if you can just be a
reducer terian if you can just take
these compromising baby steps good for
you
I'll give you a pat in the head and I
don't respect you enough to try to
educate you in the matters of principle
that shape my life because somehow my
life is so much much more meaningful
than yours
now I I have a vivid memory of
conversation half of the woman
conversation went on for quite a while I
could say why a woman who was born with
no arms and no legs and I don't mean her
arms only went part way she had
absolutely no limbs no arms and no legs
and one of the reasons why I set and
spoke with her for quite a while was
that she was afraid that a certain dog
was going to attack her and that dog was
known to me it was a violent dog a
particular dog and her fears were not
baseless so I said okay don't worry
because I couldn't I couldn't put the
dog away I couldn't get rid of the dog
so you know don't worry okay I'll sit
here with you and I'll talk with you
until somebody came together so to speak
or until someone came and got the dog we
had a very interesting conversation
memorable be in many ways she's smart
sorry I don't know where we only had
that one conversation with you a smart
woman hard-working woman and like many
of you watching this video she spent a
lot of her time at a computer because
she had no arms and no legs I assumed
she had some kind of a harness
you know people that they have
disability I've seen this before they
have in effect a kind of joystick
let's put onto your chest you can use
your your head and your neck to your
chin to manipulate the the computer
um obviously she relies on other people
to some extent people who are paid to so
much that people were volunteers to some
extent I assume members of her family I
don't know to feed her to clothe her to
bathe her to help her go to the bathroom
it would be incredibly difficult for her
to become vegan many of you watching
this video video you will know the agony
of refusing your own mother's cooking of
saying no mom don't cook for me or if
you cook for me I'm not gonna eat it I'm
gonna refuse to eat it because of
veganism however you probably do that
with two hands and two feet you probably
have been through that scenario where
you had the option of cooking for
yourself where you had the option of
cooking for your mother if not now then
one day soon in the future imagine how
difficult that would be to say to your
mother
no I'm refusing your cooking if you
could never cook for yourself if you
could never be in the position of
cooking for your mother you could never
take the initiative where you were in a
position of Perpetual dependency on
those around you now obviously this
woman with the severe physical
disability if she actually becomes a
millionaire and is employing people as
her staff to take care of her she could
demand to be vegan but that's very
unlikely to happen and that was not the
situation she was she was living in at
the time so when I say not everyone can
be vegan I do not mean that the idol
millionaires of the world like Elon Musk
and Bill Gates PPK you know I do not
mean that able-bodied basically
intelligent people cannot be vegan but
it's true whether it's for mental
reasons emotional reasons or physical
reasons physical disability and so on
just as there are some people who will
never quit smoking I do accept there are
some people who will never quit eating
meat
but still there's a point in dealing
with the matters of principle and
dealing them dealing with those matters
of principle in a way that's rigorous em
is responsible and extends to you as the
person talking to me
the fundamental respect that you can
handle these questions you can handle
these problems the same way I can you
know it's not overwhelming for you any
more than it's overwhelming for me even
though many of us at some point felt
overwhelmed you know the actual sight of
how milk is produced of how the milk and
dairy industry operates of how the cows
are impregnated how they're exploited
the the sight of what it really looks
like to have animals living on a
concrete floor in a steel cage their
whole lives where that's the only
reality they know yes for some of us
it's overwhelming but to talk about that
in a matter that's Frank and that again
I mean it's it's a basic paradox isn't
it I respect you enough to disrespect
you as opposed to I regard you as some
kind of mental infant and I don't have
the respect I don't have enough respect
for you to really be honest to really
say this might upset you but here's how
it is here's the matter of principle
here's what's so meaningful for me in my
life here's what matters so much from my
perspective about the future of planet
Earth the future of our society you know
modern Western society or modern Chinese
society wherever you're living this is
why I care so much about the
exploitation and deaths of millions of
animals that it reshapes my life on on a
day to day basis and this is why I think
you should care also do I respect you
enough to disrespect you the other day a
young woman here at the school and it's
significantly sir she's a she's a
conventionally beautiful young woman I
don't know if she's 19 or 21 I don't
know I don't want to know um she came up
to me and said there were other people
in the room and said in a sort of loud
chirpy voice oh so you're vegan I said
no how did you figure it out you know
you know there were other people around
kind of amused by the the conversation
and she gave this very peculiar series
of statements that she's not vegan but a
lot of the other young women at her
college are vegan her College United
States and she tried really hard to be
vegan once and she managed to not eat
chicken for one year while eating all
other forms of meat and dairy blah blah
blah and my response that was humorous
and was received as humorous other
people in the room you know laughed a
little bit pardon me I said to her
because she insisted that she had tried
really hard said more than once she
tried her vegan I said to her well it
sounds to me like you didn't try really
hard at all I said but you know you're
young still maybe next year you can try
harder and you can fail harder too it's
not much of a joke but she was slightly
amused in other people were more amused
that was not taken as offensive in the
context of that that peculiar
conversation but still it was clear to
me that for her I think precisely
because she's a good-looking young woman
nobody had ever said anything like that
there before I think she had told the
same story many many times when she had
met vegetarians or vegans and I think
every single time people have responded
oh oh good for you good for you dear oh
you know you want a pat on the back you
want a pat on the head you know oh
that's the best you can do
like really assuming this woman is is so
stupid or so lacking in self-discipline
that she couldn't possibly do what other
young women at our school already doing
or do what I'm doing on a daily basis
living in exactly the same circumstances
she and I live in the same school we eat
we literally eat at the same buffet
every day all you need to do to be vegan
here is choose different items at the
same buffet table that I myself line up
for standing next to her so you think
it's hard if you think you can't do it
in this scenario I know exactly how hard
it is or exactly how easy it
you know sure youth and beauty
especially in our culture become a
strange pretext for treating people as
if they're not morally responsible for
their own actions as if they're not to
be taken seriously in questions of moral
principle and questions of personal
responsibility and in the contrary even
though I joked around with her I don't
start from the assumption that she's any
stupider than I was at age 19 if she's
19 or 21 whatever she is I don't start
with the assumption that she's a lost
cause I don't start with the assumption
that she's in the category of your
grandpa hypothetical grandpa who's over
70 years old and it's just never gonna
quit smoking where it's a lost cause
you've tried he's tried he knows all the
facts don't start that way at all
and it is disturbing to me in the middle
of her of her video in the middle of a
natural vegans video responding to sorsa
the way she just throws out this idea
that it's it's effective activism it's
the most effective activism to talk to
meat eaters to throw away the whole
matter of principle throw away the
question of ethical veganism in
principle and just talk about reduced
Arianism just talk about compromising
baby steps as disturbing to me and again
the matters of principle plenty of you
hate me because I talk about this stuff
they are divisive they're divisive
within vegan the veganism and they're
they create friction between you and
meat eaters in your life if you talk
about them but I do think it's genuinely
meaningful and worthwhile to come down
to the the fundamentals on these issues
and the rift between me and unnatural
vegan actually is very fundamental it is
very profound it's not just a
personality conflict whether a cat can
conceptualize exploitation or not is
beside the point the fact that we can
recognize such acts is immoral therefore
means 'we have a moral responsibility to
not commit such acts for example if i
walk up to a black person who doesn't
understand English and starts spouting a
bunch of racist slurs towards it I'm
being racist whether he can
conceptualize that or not I see no
problem with consuming ethically
produced honey it's the same position
that I hold on drinking cow's milk it if
it can be guaranteed that the animals do
not suffer so I had a conversation
with this guy think about this I'll give
a link to his channel by email he made a
video many months ago addressing some
misconceptions that natural vegan
promotes misconceptions about veganism
it seems so simple and straightforward
to start off with the principle a
unifying principle a great myth like
veganism exists to reduce animal
suffering but you're starting on a false
footing and when you keep walking down
that path you might be amazed what
strange places it leads you to I don't
believe that veganism is about reducing
animal suffering in part because I don't
believe in that kind of simple
simplistic sloganeering approach to
politics and veganism in practice is a
political problem as I said in an
earlier video if you want to quit
smoking as just one person then it may
not be political that's just one person
struggle what have you but if we want to
quit smoking as a society if we want to
abolish the use of tobacco if I want
everyone in the world to quit smoking
eventually if I want to see it disappear
then that's political it involves the
government it involves you involves me
involves all of us working together this
question unnatural vegan raises of
ethically produced milk sadly is not
just hypothetical if you do a google
search for a hings
dairy that other people pronounce ahimsa
dairy it's a Sanskrit word surprise
there is a movement within the united
states to adapt vaguely hindu notions of
ethical milk production to make
small-scale farms produce happy milk so
there are people including possibly some
vegans who are actually following a
natural vegans advice on this and paying
money for cows to live their whole lives
in a hutch in confinement producing milk
for human beings to consume i do not
think that's ethical or advisable and my
reasoning is profoundly different from a
natural vegans
yes I can present a complex argument on
that but I can also present a dirt
simple argument on it the complex
arguments I mean ultimately they have to
do with concepts like dignity that are
not ethically simple and that some
people who watch this channel like there
are people who enjoy this channel but
who project what I say about the dignity
of animals suffering the question of the
criterion of suffering I think it
doesn't ask the right questions doesn't
bring us to the right answers either if
a lion lives in the wild for only five
years it's gonna end your tremendous
suffering at every stage of its life
growing up competing with other Lions
hunting ranging being bullied around
bossed by the other Lions in the
competition within the lion pack may be
miserable disease hunger changes in the
weather sleeping outdoors
this Lions life in the wild in many
objective ways may be miserable may have
a lot of suffering and then especially
towards the end this Lions death may be
long and slow and painful in the wild at
the end of let's say it's 5 year
lifespan life in the wild can be nasty
brutish and short do I think it would be
better for that lion to instead live for
10 years in captivity where it deals
with none of those sources of stress and
none of those sources of suffering no I
don't because I think that this phony
utilitarian approach to veganism is
horseshit
I think the questions of what really is
a life of dignity for an animal are very
difficult to ask and very difficult to
answer because they make us
uncomfortable as human beings they make
us question our relationships with their
own pets with cats and dogs they make us
question the meanings of our own lives
in a way that we don't want to look at
it's it's very convenient to use this
this phony utilitarian approach but look
where it leads us it leads to vegans
approving of happy milk well yeah you
know what there's the dignity of the
animal involved I don't think it's a
life of dignity for an animal even in
ahimsa dairy even in you know high high
ethical even if the cow is treated
same way pet dog is treated in your
living room with as much kindness with
as much human hospitality because I
don't think human hospitality is
appropriate for cows or lions or dogs I
think the moral baseline we choose has
to be based on on it has to reflect how
those animals live in the wild including
their their struggles their suffering
etc in the wild it's beneath the cow's
dignity to live its life in captivity as
a domesticated animal producing milk for
me to drink even if it's happy milk even
if the cow doesn't suffer if it's if
it's suffering is reduced to zero or
near zero but it's also beneath my
dignity as a human being because I do
not subscribe to the philosophy the
human being should live like vampires
sucking on the breasts of quadrupeds
it's ridiculous to me and yes you know I
mean on natural vegan even the name of
her Channel suggests that you know a
rejection of the appeal to nature
fallacy appeals to nature appeals to the
concept of nature can be fallacious but
it doesn't mean that there are always
fallacious doesn't mean the concept of
nature itself is somehow totally invalid
it has no use in our lives or in this in
this world yes it is unnatural for a
human biped to drink the milk of a cow
or a lion or any other milk producing
quadruped ed I think it's deeply
disturbing for a human being to drink
the milk of a monkey I know can I come
up with a scenario in a science fiction
book on a desert island where someone
would need to do that okay there's some
some crazy ethical scenario we can come
up with but we're talking about the real
world here and we're talking about a
world where you know a hing satheri
exists where this type of ethical milk
you know this type of milk where they
claim the cow doesn't suffer and someone
where this really is being produced at a
premium price for people to buy and
consume and unnatural vegan with with
vegan in her name is approving of that
at the same time that she's approving of
vegans consuming honey you know not even
gonna bother mentioning here
why did I never reply to this specific
controversy before because I have just
had some email with we think about this
the other guy in that video before
because I thought that what a natural
vegan had to say was so stupid that it
wasn't worth replying to and it didn't
seem to me as as fundamentally
challenging as this issue of
domesticated pets castration of dogs
that you now know I've devoted quite a
lot of time to now why is it so stupid
because there's a much simpler approach
to veganism that refutes this problem or
obviates this problem and that is the
concept of doing the best you can and
you know it's out of style it's out of
fashion it sounds Christian it sounds
hokey it sounds philosophically
unsophisticated in contrast to these
totally insincere utilitarian arguments
and a lot of the other posturing a
political posturing
that happens within it within veganism
but you know what about doing the best
you can I don't need to eat honey I
don't need to drink cow's milk it
happens that science proves to us these
things are not healthy anyway I mean if
cow's milk cured cancer we'd have a very
different set of questions instead of
cow's milk causing cancer or correlating
to cancer or promoting cancer making
worse a long list of health conditions
so cow's milk is not healthy for human
beings anyway if it if it were maybe the
questions be asking to be different but
you know what about just doing the best
you can yes we have this fancy phrase as
much as is possible and practicable yeah
I know I've heard it I've read it -
doing the best I can whether it's in
reference to my diet the self-discipline
in my daily life or whether it's in
reference to my reaching out to and
educating my fellow human beings for one
thing doing the best I can it it
definitely excludes honey
it definitely excludes dairy products
unless they're in a medicine in the form
of a medicine that I crucially need to
live that cures a disease I have and
there are vegans in that situation you
can have a pill that has you know qaol
qaol ingredients cow milk is a minor
ingredient you don't have a choice you
don't have an alternative you ask for
the pill without that ingredient but you
can't get it it's tough like life is
full of tough compromises that way but
doing the best I can also applies to
these other scenarios whether I'm having
the conversation with the girl who
literally has no arms and legs or I'm
talking to the able-bodied young
American college student who says she
tried really hard to be vegan because
she stopped eating chicken for one year
and then went back to eating chicken um
I don't know it to them I don't know it
to myself it's not about a utilitarian
principle of reducing suffering or
anything else
you know what if I talk to you I'm gonna
do the best I can I'm gonna talk to you
about the real principle of the thing
what really matters what's really
meaningful to me I'm not gonna give you
a watered-down dumbed down halfway
version of veganism I'm not gonna sell
you on reduce at Arianism I'm not gonna
tell you that meatless Mondays are okay
and taking halfway steps is okay for the
same reasons that if you're a cigarette
smoker I wouldn't tell you oh well but
you know smoking cigarettes is not that
bad oh well you know I'm like my
grandfather lived to be more than 80
years old and he smokes or so it's okay
it's not that bad
I'm never gonna tell you it's okay maybe
I can have a sympathetic conversation
with you maybe I can have a humorous and
lighthearted conversation with you you
know it doesn't have to be you know
tear-jerking or what-have-you but yeah
that's the simpler principle the thing
is just doing the best you can I do it
for the love I'll do it footage no but I
know these suck the biggest wheel so
they keep me over told what
until you would have hated foe